code/linear_model/README.md, before:

# Linear Model

### See it in action:
For 2d example:

Just open the [sample_2d.html](sample_2d.html) page!

For 1d example:

Just open the [sample_1d.html](sample_1d.html) page!

### How to use:

    linearmodel = new LinearModel2d([ [2010, 50],[2011, 55],[2012, 60],[2012, 65] ])
    // or
    linearmodel = new LinearModel1d([ 50, 55, 60, 65 ])

    line_of_best_fit = linearmodel.generate_lobf() // the result is a line of best fit for every year in the original list

To 'project' that line forward, you can use:

    point = linearmodel.project(2015) \\ point will be [2015, projection]
    // if using 1d
    point = linearmodel.project(5) \\ point will be [5, projection]


    line_of_best_fit.push(point)

Based on request from @dgendill:

    projection = linearmodel.project_func() // Returns based on lobf

    // 1d, for 2d, just iterate over years
    for (var x = 0; x < 20; x++) {
        console.log( projection(x) )
    }


If you need access to the slope or intercept or r squared:

    var slope = linearmodel.slope

    var intercept = linearmodel.intercept

    var r_squared = linearmodel.r_squared

### How to use for projections:

linearmodel.project_r_squared(year, number_of_years_from_last_known_year)

    // 2d
    y1 = linearmodel.project_r_squared(2013, 1)
    // 1d
    y1 = linearmodel.project_r_squared(4, 1)

Above will return `[2013, highest_value, lowest_value]`

This is different than just `.project(year)` because, unlike project, it gives you a range the 
data should fall in.

### How to make changes and compile:

Make sure you've installed typescript (`npm install -g typescript`)

`tsc stats.ts --target es5`

The `target --es5` ensures backwards compatablitity with older browsers and IE

Just copy the stats.js over to the working directory, and you are good!

Commit message:

Added Features, Removed Bugs, Made new Sample! (#15)
* Added linear regression

* Feature added, bugs squashed

Combined _1d + _2d samples, into sample, added linear number generator, created new sample_pretty

added projections using confidence, updated md to show usage, check out the sample.html for demo

added the slope, intercept and r^2 to the hmtl for completeness

added notation on returns

Improved markdown, added feature requests by @dgendill

improved documentation

Added a pretty sample, to show what output could/should look like, added a function that generates a nice random upward trending line chart, reduced the _1d and _2d samples into one page.

Added Linear Regression take 2 (#12)

Added linear regression. Added Coefficient of Determination, so we can project how the data will preform in the future, using a measure of confidence, see the sample.html. Added projections using confidence, updated md to show usage, check out the sample.html for demo. Added the slope, intercept and r^2 to the hmtl for completeness. Added notation on returns.

fixed a bug on ln64 of sample.html

* fixed missed git message in readme.md

code/linear_model/README.md, after:

# Linear Model

### See it in action:
For 2d example:

Just open the [sample_2d.html](sample_2d.html) page!

For 1d example:

Just open the [sample_1d.html](sample_1d.html) page!

### How to use:

    linearmodel = new LinearModel2d([ [2010, 50],[2011, 55],[2012, 60],[2012, 65] ])
    // or
    linearmodel = new LinearModel1d([ 50, 55, 60, 65 ])

    line_of_best_fit = linearmodel.generate_lobf() // the result is a line of best fit for every year in the original list

To 'project' that line forward, you can use:

    point = linearmodel.project(2015) \\ point will be [2015, projection]
    // if using 1d
    point = linearmodel.project(5) \\ point will be [5, projection]


    line_of_best_fit.push(point)

Based on request from @dgendill:

    projection = linearmodel.project_func() // Returns based on lobf

    // 1d, for 2d, just iterate over years
    for (var x = 0; x < 20; x++) {
        console.log( projection(x) )
    }


If you need access to the slope or intercept or r squared:

    var slope = linearmodel.slope

    var intercept = linearmodel.intercept

    var r_squared = linearmodel.r_squared

### How to use for projections:

linearmodel.project_r_squared(year, number_of_years_from_last_known_year)

    // 2d
    y1 = linearmodel.project_r_squared(2013, 1)
    // 1d
    y1 = linearmodel.project_r_squared(4, 1)

Above will return `[2013, highest_value, lowest_value]`

This is different than just `.project(year)` because, unlike project, it gives you a range the 
data should fall in.

    var r_squared = linearmodel.r_squared

### How to use for projections:

linearmodel.project_r_squared(year, number_of_years_from_last_known_year)

    // 2d
    y1 = linearmodel.project_r_squared(2013, 1)
    // 1d
    y1 = linearmodel.project_r_squared(4, 1)

Above will return `[2013, highest_value, lowest_value]`

This is different than just `.project(year)` because, unlike project, it gives you a range the 
data should fall in.

### How to make changes and compile:

Make sure you've installed typescript (`npm install -g typescript`)

`tsc stats.ts --target es5`

The `target --es5` ensures backwards compatablitity with older browsers and IE

Just copy the stats.js over to the working directory, and you are good!
